the most fundamental bias you will
encounter amongst journalists in the
mainstream press is neither left nor
right is neither liberal nor
conservative the most fundamental bias
is the desire to have a story to tell in
wanting to have a story to tell the
journalist will choose a compelling
story a dramatic story a story that
comes to a clear conclusion that has
contrasts of good and evil over a story
that's ambiguous ambivalent uncertain
dissipated aimless morally confusing
there's a choosing of the story to be
told and then there's the journalists
effort to present himself or herself as
having enough expertise to tell that
story in the case of the recent events
in Kurdistan in northern Syria northern
Iraq bordering areas of Turkey and so on
the Kurdistan II fable being told by the
mainstream press is false and it's false
whether it's being told from the far
left the moderate left and liberals or
the Conservatives I've seen absolutely
nothing but lies here and you know
there's this old hackneyed phrase
learning the lessons of history you
don't have to go back too far in history
to learn the lessons to understand
what's really been happening with with
the Iraqi Kurdistan with various
Kurdistan ik areas um 2017 2017 was not
all that long ago let's let's just
pretend this is hypothetical let's just
say hypothetically in the year 2017
there was a vote in Iraqi Kurdistan
there was a referendum where the public
were invited to vote on whether or not
they would prefer to be an independent
country in the future so that's the kind
of
that's the kind of political event that
takes a long time to stage-managed so
everyone in the so-called international
community had their opportunity to state
their case to state their position on it
so Barack Obama at the end of his term
had his chance to speak on it and then
actually that vote the referendum took
place after the election of Donald Trump
Donald Trump was in office he had his
opportunity to speak the Prime Minister
of France England Germany they all could
have taken a immoral position one way or
another on the question of Kurdistan
becoming an independent country you know
what they had the referendum in Iraqi
Kurdistan and it was followed up by a
civil war a civil war that anyone in the
so-called international community could
have intervened in or could have at
least made a statement about and the
opportunity for the Western powers to
make their policy position clear on the
future of the Kurds already came and
went and it's not ancient history it was
made absolutely clear to anyone paying
attention in the year 2017 if there had
been any doubt in your mind before what
was the policy position of george w bush
the future of kurdistan what was the
position of barack obama on the future
person anyone who even asked themselves
this question knew the answer there
never was any ambiguity but in case you
were kidding yourself that this was in
any way ambiguous it was made completely
unambiguous ly clear in 2017 with the
referendum and the brief but decisive
civil war that happened thereafter
hashtag spoilers in case you didn't know
Iraq won the Civil War they suppressed
the Kurdish independence movement they
changed the borders they took back
direct control of some very important
oil fields economically important
strategically important that was the end
of the prospect of an
independent Kurdistan and all the
Western powers including Donald Trump
himself sitting in the White House made
their position clear they are opposed to
they do not now support they never have
supported Kurdish independence the
creation of a new sovereign state for
the Kurdish people never have Hey
so the first fundamental lie in the
current press coverage of what's
happening in northern Syria and all of
the adjacent areas with with the Kurds
the first lie is saying that the United
States have abandoned Kurdish
independence Kurdish nationalism that
they've abandoned it as if in the past
they supported it okay I'm sorry if you
had even said that in 2017 that would
have seemed incredibly naive incredibly
joo-hyun anyone who really knows
politics and carrots politics could have
taken you aside said no no no come on
are you kidding they said this was never
the playbook sorry at what point did
george w bush save the american people
that they were committed to fighting a
war for the independence of the kurdish
people to create a kurdish homeland as
if it does that sound like something you
could remember george w bush saying at
what point did Barack Obama commit to
something like that or ask for a debate
in the debate of the Senate about
America's official position on Kurdish
an offensive never happened it was brief
enough never even entertained now you
can talk about why that is you can talk
about the strategic factors that incline
various Western powers to make that
those decisions I think the more
important question is not to ask why
that decision is made it's to ask who
decides and this is where we begin to
question this terrible fiction this
powerful fable of our times this is
where we begin to question what is meant
by quote unquote
the international community the
international community is an abstract
term we use to console ourselves for the
decisions that we
the public do not make that we are not
privy to decisions that politicians are
not accountable to us for that are not
transparent that we do not participate
in we are never asked to vote in a
referendum
that's a contrast to Iraqi Kurdistan
they at least they got a referendum did
anyone ever ask the American people to
vote on a referendum would you or would
you not be willing for the next five
years to support a war to prevent the
Taliban from coming back to power in in
Afghanistan you know that's that's a
meaningful question to put to the
American public and maybe how many
million dollars are you willing to
commit and maybe how many how many
thousands of troops whatever it is that
would be a really meaningful question to
put the American public in a referendum
what what if you put to the public in a
referendum the United States are you
willing to invade and conquer Syria in
order to replace the regime of Bashar
al-assad with another more democratic
form of government would Americans vote
in favor of that would Americans in the
year 2016 have voted in favor of that
proposal there never was a referendum
the Pope we never gets all that it's not
international community decisive thing
there is this vague abstraction of the
international community partly comprised
of elected officials yes partly
comprised of unelected technocrats and
bureaucrats who meet in secret behind
closed doors to make these decisions on
your behalf with implications for you
your sons and daughters died fighting
the wars your governments are bankrupted
by the billions in military budget being
spent on it so on and so forth um but
even if those meetings even if the
decisions made by quote-unquote the
international community even if those
decisions were entirely made by elected
officials it's impossible for the public
to choose that elected official and hold
them to account for a specific foreign
policy decision like war in Syria war in
Iraq war to create a homeland for the
Kurds a future Kurdistan it's impossible
if you ask someone in Germany why did
you vote for this person as Prime
they have to say back to you oh well I
liked his position on health care or I
liked her position on the economy
there's gonna be a long list of issues
packaged up in the one bowl ball and
then they have to make that decision for
who's in charge they cannot vote for or
against one president or another one
prime minister or another one leader or
another on the basis of something as
specific as their policy in Afghanistan
their policy in Syria their policy for
the Kurds right so you you must have
direct democracy you must have
disambiguated democracy where people
know the decision they're making and
they make that decision a lot of people
felt that they were voting for Donald
Trump because he was the anti-war
candidate I remember those debates they
were surreal it was very clear Hillary
Clinton was promising forever war he
thought the war would go on forever more
Wars wars in North Africa wars in Syria
Hillary Clinton was the pro war
candidate and it's surreal to say now
looking back but Donald Trump presented
himself as and he was perceived as being
relatively cautious about war relatively
scheduled war he was the candidate
saying that he wanted to bring back
American troops from Afghanistan from
Syria etc etc that these things had gone
on for long enough he made various
incoherent comments at that time he's
still making incoherent comments now
that one way or another he wants peace
or at least less war so the deception
presented by the mainstream press right
now is in two parts that fit together
very poorly the first part of the
argument is that the Kurds always were
the allies the United States and all
kinds of wonderful things are then said
about the Kurds many of them are not
true
for example it said that their secular
why they're hardly Muslim at all yeah
they're called secular when they're
being contrasted to the Islamic state
and other really extremist
fundamentalist Muslims come on you gotta
have your head examined
anyway if
possible form of praise is heaped on the
Kurds and their ethno nationalist
movements to have a nation-state based
on their language and national identity
all kinds of positive things about them
that left-wingers would never say about
israel which is also a country based on
an ethe no national electoral religious
identity and strength inconsistent thing
here oh well every possible positive
thing is said about the Kurds they're
described as having being America's
allies continuously until one day Donald
Trump sent out these tweets and again no
absolutely no Google level knowledge of
what happened even as recently as 2017
completely intentional blindness to the
whole history the last 20 years
regardless we continue and yet if you
keep reading a little bit further down
the page of the same newspaper what
you'll find is the admission that as
soon as the United States of America
made it clear they would no longer be
supporting any side in northern Syria
that they would be evacuating their
troops the Kurds immediately almost that
very day took up negotiations to switch
sides and begin openly supporting the
government of Bashar al-assad in Syria
to begin openly working with and
allowing themselves with the Russians
the extent to which Donald Trump and the
Russians were ever on opposite sides in
Syria is going to be an interesting
question for historians to puzzle at
even during the election debates before
an all Trump was elected he openly said
that he saw the Russian presence there
as being positive because Russia in the
United States both were opposed to Isis
the Islamic state that he thought the
Russians could be some sort of
civilizing stabilizing force in the
region and maybe he was right it remains
to be seen but the notion that the Kurds
ever had any love or commitment
or fealty to the united states or that
the united states ever had any feel to
your commitment to the kurds it's very
difficult to sustain this illusion even
when we're just looking at the events of
the past one month in detail let alone
when we're looking at the events of say
the last three years in detail and you
know coming back to my initial point in
this video I don't think the journalists
are doing this out of left-wing bias or
conservative bias I see the
Conservatives telling much the same lies
at the moment for whatever reason I
think the fundamental bias they're
trapped in is the desire to have a story
to tell and then to tell whatever the
most compelling the most emotionally
moving story possible might be there's
less and less interest in the truth
there's less and less interest in
problem solving you know problem solving
is fundamentally a very undramatic
attitude towards a situation it's very
humbling we said okay this is a
situation with problems what can we do
to help what can we do to make it better
the answer to that question may be very
humbling indeed the United States made
the decision cynically or not a long
time ago that they were not going to
create a separate state for the Kurds
that could have done it in northern Iraq
most easily during the period in which
they were occupying Iraq through
military invasion and conquest they
decided not to do that and there are
considerations here like well if you
create a separate state for the Kurds
then probably turkey will leave NATO if
turkey exits NATO then the conflict
between Turkey and Greece Turkey and
Cyprus all of that heats up the
relationship between Turkey and Israel
is also some strategic importance their
relationship to the United
States and Iraq is of strategic
importance and even though you may think
the Iraqi government is entirely a
creature of American intervention those
relations could break down Iraq could
move closer to Iran both Iraq and Iran
would actually be unified with one
common interest fighting against a newly
independent Kurdistan yeah yeah once you
start placing out the dominoes on the
field you start to see a lot of cynical
Machiavellian reasons why quote unquote
the international community would never
make this decision to promote the
creation of an independent Kurdish home
and apart from the general principle of
the thing of whether or not creating
nation-states based on ethnicity is a
good idea in the 21st century the
international community also has no
interest in supporting the Khmer Krom
being returned to Cambodia they have no
interest in Shan State becoming a
separate country from Myanmar it's a
pretty long list of ethnic independence
movements that could be supported by the
international community
but now let's just take this down to the
lowest level of the hoi polloi the
members of the mob
once more the wonderful thing about
democracy is that if you let people vote
if you let people vote in a referendum
on these issues they won't think about
it in those Machiavellian terms at all I
think the majority of American people
would not vote in favor of a new war in
northern Syria I think the majority of
American people would not vote to
support the creation of a separate
homeland a separate country for the
Kurds and you know what I think they'd
come to that decision in part on the
basis of principle and in part on the
basis of self-interest but I don't think
they'd give the slightest thought to the
cynical Machiavellian geostrategic
considerations that currently are
lurking behind this pleasing appearance
we have of the so-called international
community supposedly making decisions on
our behalf for the greater good on a
charitable basis behind closed
doors guys democracy either you've got
it or you don't
[Music]